Bitnation Strategic Planning

Participants: Kent, David, Jacob, William, Thiago
April 4-5, 2018 in Mountain View, California

Process: Our choice of goals tell us which problems of our sample target personae (users) we should focus on for our development roadmap. 

Broad Goals
Bitnation is part of the solution to ameliorate governmental corruption, oppression, inefficiency. Bitnation also seeks to encourage positive social interactions, community-building, and collaboration.

For clarification:

Corruption means the abuse of power over individuals in a governance context, e.g. demanding bribes, unwarranted use of violence, exclusion from society for immoral or illegal reasons. In particular, corruption affects medication and conflict resolution.

Oppression means governmental abuse of human rights, such as the rights of expression, association, religion, etc. 

Inefficiency means the forced use of governance systems that are either too expensive, too slow, or too incomplete for the purposes of the governed.

Problems to Solve/Collaborations to Enable
Based on the needs of our sample personae, we can work toward our core goals by solving the following core problems.

Problem: It is hard to establish a positive reputation. 
We will use Reputation Creation/Analysis/Application (using “Lucy”):
Allow Search/Analysis of reputation
Allow Acquisition of reputation (positive and negative)
Allow Conflict resolution based on reputation

Problem: Corrupt systems do not provide mediation/conflict resolution. 
We provide transparent Mediation/Conflict Resolution

Problem: People need social networks that provide tools for collaboration with confidentiality.
We provide social networking for Socialization/Community/Communication with privacy and collaboration tools.

Problem: Corrupt or inefficient bureaucracies cost too much for poor people. 
We provide tools to replace or circumvent Bureaucratic Inefficiency/Corruption.

Problem: People need tools for trade and contracts (collaboration) that include mediation, transparency, privacy, and honest legal systems.
Algorithmic legal systems give transparency, honesty, and mediation while algorithmic contracts and commerce reduce dishonest collaborations.

Problem: People seek ways to create their own “nations,” to build community, commerce, and culture, outside of predatory commercial systems (such as Facebook).
We offer tools for Nation Building, both simple and complex.

Problem: People seek solutions for governance beyond existing systems, due to corruption, oppression, and inefficiency.
We offer a Marketplace of Governance where vendors can offer governance services.

Sample User Personae
Of many possible user personae, we have selected the following as our initial target users. Each of these users has the problems, and requires the solutions, listed above.

Homeless/Refugee
The person has very little money, few other resources, insufficient skills, and insufficient social network and social status to earn a living. They need safe, private, and functional social networks, as well as working systems for trade. They need to establish positive reputations.

Small Town/Gated Community
A community which suffers from governmental corruption, inefficiency, and lack of functional social networks. Services and customers need to established positive reputations, and ways to discover bad actors.

Working Poor 
The working poor pay extra for governmental inefficiency, corruption and oppression. They need affordable, workable systems for trade, collaboration, and social networking. They need to establish positive reputations.

Digital Nomad
Modern digital nomads need the community and reputation that used to come with staying in one place for a long time. These workers also need commerce and contract systems for international collaboration, with privacy and enforced honesty.

Development Roadmap
Based on the above prolems and needs, we see the following functionality as core for the Bitnation development roadmap:


Marketplace for employing DApps. Also called the “bazaar”, this is not a “store” where Bitnation sells items or services, like the Apple App Store. Instead, we provide a way for users to share and discover DApps from lists they curate. There is no “us” to curate or sell. We simply provide a tool that is analogous to a web browser or RSS feed reader, and Bitnation has no control over the selection or content shown, nor the DApps used.
Integrated Contract Creation, Negotiation, and Arbitration. The systems for contracts, collaboration, communication, and conflict resolution must be integrated to solve our users’ problems. This requires an enforceable, transparent, workable legal system.
Governance Services. Bitnation must provide core governance services. Currently there are not enough governance service DApps to cover basic needs.
Governance Evaluation. Bitnation must develop tools to evaluate our governance services, and those of other DApps, to inform the Lucy Reputation system.
Chat. Our core solution for communication and collaboration is a text-based chat system.
Contracts/Deeds/Documents. We must create core contracts until the marketplace catches up. The core is not determined, but these could include simple sales and exchanges of property and services, marriage, death, and property deeds.
Documents System. In order to create, store, and distribute verifiable documents, we need a working system for storage and distribution of both internal digital documents, and externally created (scanned?) documents, of quality suitable for recognition by external systems (i.e. governments).
Payments/Banking. We need a working payment system for common cryptocurrencies, as well as our internal PAT currency. “Banking” is named here because of the need to safely store currency.

Use Modes
We have two kinds of users: nation-builders and citizens. They have very different needs and modes of use of the Bitnation platform.

Nation-builders require a system to create and administer nations, small and large. Much of their work may have to be done with a screen larger than a phone, probably a website on a computer.

Citizens require a system designed for collaboration, communication, and commerce. Their system must work entirely on a small, inexpensive mobile device (e.g. a phone).

We have not determined whether (nor even how) to divide up functionality between two systems.  



Nation-Building

Nation-building is a core function of Bitnation, and our concept goes beyond the simple discussion groups of Facebook and other platforms. We aspire to create real communities that can do more than host chats! We need to provide the basic social tools for any functional community: communication, culture, collaboration, and conflict-resolution. It is important to note that we are offering solutions and tools, not imposing solutions. We are a platform for governance, not a rigid system, but there is a basic support structure we must offer.

The basic structure of a Bitnation-nation is the constitution, the set of guiding rules and ideas. The constitution may contain written text to guide the culture of the nation, and it may contain suitable graphic identity (a flag). However, written texts are aspirational. There is no point in labeling a “democratic” or “dictatorial” beforehand — those labels are descriptions of the behavior of the nation’s citizens and institutions. So, how can we go beyond text and leverage the power of the virtual, digital world?

Bitnation has a unique and brilliant way of conceiving of a nation: the core of the constitution is the library of software functions that govern activity inside it. These functions are basic activities, such as “transfer of property,” “entity is a citizen,” “eject from nation,” “transfer money,” and so on. Depending on the goals of the nation, these can differ between nations, allowing the creation of very different kinds of governance! 

For example, in one nation, a payment of money can be defined as 
Transfer ownership of N ETH from Entity “A” to Entity “B”.

However, in another nation, the function might take a fee from every transaction for the use of the nation, and it might be
Transfer ownership of (N – F) ETH from Entity “A” to Entity “B”, and F ETH to the nation.

Likewise, “marriage” might be a core function but defined differently by different nations. 

The next important idea is that all contracts and documents created inside the nation are created using links to the nations core software functions; they do not define core functions themselves. This means that all contracts follow the digital laws of the nation by definition, and that changes to national “law” automatically are changes to all rules in that jurisdiction. 

Changing the constitution means changing the core library — the equivalent of a revolution. This is a step not to be taken likely lightly, and a properly created constitution must protect against revolutions…just like a real state.

This system of core functions in a library essentially digitalizes core laws of a nation, and leverages the power of Ethereum smart contracts to create a transparent, incorruptible legal system. 

Most governance services are not in the constitution itself, however. They are available through the bazaar, the marketplace of governance. Nation-builders can choose the services they want to offer. For example, if a nation wishes to trade and store property, it can hire a DApp which provides real estate services, deed services, and links to Earth governance (such as a city) to coordinate ownership in both realms.

This approach means that Bitnation is not simply replicating Earth solutions and practices in a virtual world — we are creating governance uniquely suited for a virtual world! This algorithmic approach is a good solution for dealing with the inherent problems of text-based constitutions which are only as a useful as the individuals who judge conflicts with them. 

This is an exciting, new, and unique concept for virtual nation-building. 

The Process of Creating a Nation
The software process of creating a nation is as follows:
The founder of the nation begins provides his/her/it’s public key to establish ownership.
Founder runs a nation-builder DApp, providing the data required to found the nation (name, desired governance functions, etc.)
The DApp creates a “spoke” smart contract off the “hub” of the constitution smart contract on the blockchain, applying the data provided by the nation builder. Note, the hub constitution is provided by Pangea (but could be a 3rd party constitution library).
The nation contract creates and stores data as required in a data management system.

A nation-builder DApp will use a “constitution” (which is a library of functions, a kind of smart contract), and possibly add modifications of its own. For example a “Capitalist Democracy” DApp will use the library of democracy functions shared with “Social Democracy”, but will have some differences when it comes to ownership, commerce, etc.

This structure is blockchain efficient. It allows updates to core functions (with citizen and nation approval), either automatic or with permissions, without requiring each nation, and all contracts in each nation, to be updated. 

Permission systems are crucial: citizens and nations may be on “full automatic”, allowing automatic upgrades for bugs and improvements. However, some will wish to review and approve all changes to smart contracts.



